howto/monitor_network.md, before:

---

copyright:
  years: 2017
lastupdated: "2017-12-05"

---

{:new_window: target="_blank"}
{:shortdesc: .shortdesc}
{:screen: .screen}
{:codeblock: .codeblock}
{:pre: .pre}

# Monitoring a {{site.data.keyword.blockchain}} network

This tutorial shows how to view and monitor the status information of your {{site.data.keyword.blockchain}} network on {{site.data.keyword.Bluemix_short}}.
{:shortdesc}

Enter Network Monitor and locate the channel that you want to view and monitor in the "Channel" screen.  In the specific channel screen, you can view the data status information, members, and instantiated chaincode of this channel in three tabs:

* **Channel Overview**  
  The "Channel Overview" tab shows the block information on this channel:
    * A series of data points including the total number of blocks that are created, the time interval since the last transaction, the number of chaincode instantiations, and the number of chaincode invocations.
    * A table listing all blocks on this channel.  Expand a block and you can view the detailed information about the block.  

  ![Channel overview](../images/channel_overview_detail.png "Channel overview")  

* **Members**  
  The "Members" tab shows the information of the members on this channel, including the email addresses for the organizational operators.
  ![Channel members](../images/channel_members.png "Channel members")  
  
* **Chaincode**  
  The "Chaincode" tab lists all the chaincodes that are instantiated on this channel with chaincode ID, version, and number of peers that are running the chaincode.   
    
  Expand a chaincode row to get detailed information about the chaincode:  
    * You can click **JSON** to view the JSON file of the chaincode.
    * You can click **Logs** to view logs of the chaincode.
    * You can click **Delete** to remove the running chaincode container. 
    **Note**: Deleting the running chaincode container does not actually delete the chaincode. An instantiated chaincode on blockchain network cannot be deleted.
  
  ![Channel chaincode](../images/channel_chaincode.png "Channel chaincode")

Commit message:

Push for Starter Plan Beta

howto/monitor_network.md, after:

---

copyright:
  years: 2017, 2018
lastupdated: "2018-03-14"

---

{:new_window: target="_blank"}
{:shortdesc: .shortdesc}
{:screen: .screen}
{:codeblock: .codeblock}
{:pre: .pre}

# Monitoring a {{site.data.keyword.blockchain}} network

This tutorial shows how to view and monitor the status information of your {{site.data.keyword.blockchain}} network on {{site.data.keyword.Bluemix_short}}.
{:shortdesc}


## Monitoring channels

Enter Network Monitor and locate the channel that you want to view and monitor in the "Channel" screen.  In the specific channel screen, you can view the data status information, members, and instantiated chaincode of this channel in three tabs:

* **Channel Overview**  
  The "Channel Overview" tab shows the block information on this channel:
    * A series of data points including the total number of blocks that are created, the time interval since the last transaction, the number of chaincode instantiations, and the number of chaincode invocations.
    * A table listing all blocks on this channel.  Expand a block and you can view the detailed information about the block.  

  ![Channel overview](../images/channel_overview_detail.png "Channel overview")  

* **Members**  
  The "Members" tab shows the information of the members on this channel, including the email addresses for the organizational operators.
  ![Channel members](../images/channel_members.png "Channel members")  

* **Chaincode**  
  The "Chaincode" tab lists all the chaincodes that are instantiated on this channel with chaincode ID, version, and number of peers that are running the chaincode.   

  Expand a chaincode row to get detailed information about the chaincode:  
    * You can click **JSON** to view the JSON file of the chaincode.
    * You can click **Logs** to view logs of the chaincode.
    * You can click **Delete** to remove the running chaincode container.
    **Note**: Deleting the running chaincode container does not actually delete the chaincode. An instantiated chaincode on blockchain network cannot be deleted.

  ![Channel chaincode](../images/channel_chaincode.png "Channel chaincode")


## Monitoring chaincodes

Enter Network Monitor and open the "Install Code" screen ("Chaincode" screen in Enterprise Plan network). If you have running chaincodes, choose a peer from the dropdown list and you can see all chaincodes for this peer in the table with chaincode IDs and versions.  You can perform installation and instantiation for your chaincode on this screen.  For more information, see [Installing and instantiating a chaincode](install_instantiate_chaincode.html).

  ![Chaincode](../images/chaincode_install_overview.png "Chaincode")


## Monitoring sample applications

In a Starter Plan network, you can view and access sample applications in the "Try Samples" screen of the Network Monitor.  After you deploy a sample application, you can click the **Launch** button to enter your application interface, or the **View on GitHub** link to visit the code repository.  For more information, see [Deploying sample applications](prebuilt_samples.html).

  ![Sample applications](../images/sampleappflow0.png "Sample applications")
